# Crunchbase_Analysis
This diverse dataset contains information about the startup ecosystem.

## Overview
This diverse dataset contains information about the startup ecosystem: organizations, individuals,
company news, funding rounds, acquisitions, and IPOs.
There are 11 tables that can be joined using unique IDs (schema to follow). More information about the
individual data variables can be found on the Crunchabse Data website (under the API Entities Types
section).

## Objectives
Perform Exploratory Data Analysis of the startup ecosystem and draw out 2 unique
insights that wil hold value to investors, Venture capitalists.
Questions
1. What is the largest investment in an African startup
2. Do you think the level of degree impacts the size of the funding round
   * What university did the founder that has the most funding rounds attend
   * How many founders attended the school in [a] and how many of them have an IPO
3. Which region has the most startups
4. Which startup has the most funding round
   * What is the founder’s name

## Findings
1.	Hospitality is the largest investment in African startup.
2.	* The most funding rounds founder attend Stanford University.
    * 2990 founders attend Stanford University and 38 founders have an IPO
3.	SF Bay is the Region with the most startups
4.	Operating is the startup with the most funding round and Tyro Payments is the founders name with the most funding round.

## Conclusion
Through my analysis i was able to gain insights that:
* The highest levels of funding are mainly being concentrated in tech related industries
*	The highest average level of funding’s is generated by IPO’s on the stock market
*	Operating is the funding type that generated the most money.
*	Majority of the money flowed into USA. This is not surprising because most universities and technology-based companies are located in this state
## Helpful Links
* [link to dataset](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I1kxtYMMUHfl3TGa8d9Hqdc58NrRk_Jo?usp=sharing)
* [funding types](https://support.crunchbase.com/hc/en-us/articles/115010458467-Glossary-of-Funding-Types#:~:text=A%20seed%20round%20typically%20comes,a%20company's%20Series%20A%20round.&text=Series%20A%20and%20Series%20B,stage%20and%20more%20established%20companies.)
